[MUSIC]
>> Audience: Should we not
call it add insight though?
>> Kyle Simpson: We all calling it add
right here, on line 12.
Okay?
Alright, now it starts to get more
interesting and a little more challenging.
We'll see how close you've
been paying attention.
And I want you cuz, we have this add2
function which takes two functions.
And if I wanted to be able to take three
functions I could make and add three, or
an add four, or an add five.
But, I want you to make an add and
I want you to make a function that takes
a list of an arbitrary number of
functions and adds all of those function
return results together but
that function has to use add to.
There's a variety of ways that
you could define your add in.
First let's just leave the add2 here so
that we see that in comments.
There's a variety of ways to define
the add in that we're talking about.
But what I want you to do is,
instead of it receiving parameters,
it's going to receive a single array.
So I'll give you that hint.
It's gonna receive a single array.
That array is going to have one or
more, actually 0 or more, but
we don't really care about those
trivial cases, functions in it.
And you need to go through and
calculate all of the sums of all
those things using only add2.
Well, of course you're gonna have to
call add2 quite a few times, right?
So you might choose to set
this up as a for loop.
And that might be the first
way that you wanna write it.
So try it with a loop first.
Try it yourself, setting up your addn
function to calculate it with a loop.
And then you'll notice the README says,
after you've done it with
a loop try it with recursion.
And finally,
might try it with map and reduce.
So here's what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna stop talking for
like five minutes,
I'll let you try it with a loop first.
And maybe move on to your
recursion attempt at it.
But then we're gonna talk through looping,
recursion, and
then, how we might use map and reduce.
So add in.
I might have slightly misspoken
before I gave you the work break,
we want this to receive an array of
values, not an array of functions.
But either way solution is
going to be mostly the same.
So if you sent in an array of functions,
there's just one less step to do.
If you are going to send in an array of
values, there is one extra step to do.
Either way.
Let's assume an array of
values is what we're gonna do.
So let's assume that we're
gonna call something like addn,
and we're going to pass in
the values 10 and 42 and 56.
And maybe one other value like 73,
okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we expect that to give us 181 as the sum.
How are we gonna do this with a loop,
with an iteration?
Well of course,
we're gonna need to keep track of it.
We're gonna need an accumulator.
We'll call it sum, starting out at 0.
We'll say for var i = 0.
i less than arr.length, i ++.
I;m going to take the entry in array,
and I'm going to call it with foo so
that's going to produce me a function
wrapping around the value,
that's the step you don't need to
do if you are assuming you have
already received function, so either way.
>> Audience: Actually I did have to,
to do the accumulator.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if you
already have a function then that
step won't be necessary, but
what we're going to have is the sum
is going to need to call the function
that it gets back so
what we're going to do is say.
I'm sorry not call the function
we are going to say add to,
and one of the things
we are going to need to
pass in is the current sum
wrapped in a function.
So we are going to need to say fusum.
So that particular part is optional if
you are already passing in functions.
This part is not optional.
Okay?
And sum is
equal to
add2.
Okay.
You could have also stepped through
the loop two at a time.
Passing two elements in the loop in and
getting their some and
just doing some plus equals and add to and
passing those in that's also an equally
valid way of solving it with the loop.
But at the end of the day,
we can simply return
sum.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
Well what about if we wanted
to do this with recursion?
In recursion we're looking for
a base case.
And what's our recursive definition for
the addition of a list?
The addition of a list,
is the addition of the first two items
plus the addition of everything else.
So it's the item,
plus everything else, and
then it's the item plus everything else.
That's how we add those two together.
So, our base case would be if the array
that we've been given is length too.
Because then we know what to do with that.
So array.length that's 2,
and you could for good measure if you
wanted to, say less than or equal to 2.
But if we were given an array of at least,
in this base case of at least having two
in it, then all we need to do is call,
add2, and
if we've been given a set of values.
Of course we're going
to need to wrap those.
So, we're gonna need to say
foo(arr[0]) and foo(arr[1]).
You don't need those foo calls if
you're passing in the functions
already prerunned.
What's our Recursion case.
We're gonna say return.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we're going to call arr[0] as a function.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right.
And then add in
>> Kyle Simpson: So this is add and,
we're gonna need to have an array that
has, sorry we're not gonna call it.
We're gonna need to add in an array,
pass in an array.
The first element in the array is going
to be what was in array position 0.
And the second one is going to
be everything else in the list.
Okay.
So, that's going to be array.slice1.
Now add in returns us back a number so
we're gonna get the numbers and
numbers and numbers coming back and
back and back to us.
If we're dealing with, I'm getting
a little bit ahead of myself so
I'm gonna try to not jump too far ahead.
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't mean to pass this
separately, that is not
what I meant to do.
I meant to call apply,
that's why I'm getting ahead of myself.
So we wanna pass in a single,
we wanna spread out in a single array
with that as the first value.
And then add2 in it.
I'm sorry.
Getting a little bit off-track,
I think I got my brain wrapped wrong.
So let me just double-check here.
Right.
There's that function.
Okay, let's start back here.
Gonna call add in with a single array.
Where the first element
in the array is a function
that returns.
Add2 with arr of 0 and
arr of 1.
So that's our first element.
That's an array with a single element in
it
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we wanna concatenate that with everything
else that's at the starting position too.
So I've taken the two items off the front
of the list, passed them to add to and
replaced them with a single
calculation for it.
And then i'm going to keep
doing that recursively.
So I concatenate that with
the rest of the list.
Arr.slice2.
Should be what I show.
Yep.
So, Single array with a function in it,
that function is going to
calculate the addition of the first
two elements in the list.
And then we're going to pass
the rest of the arguments in.
So, when if we do that the first time and
we're gonna take,
we're gonna go from a list of four
elements to a list of three elements.
Where the first item in the list is
a function and the rest of the elements
are either the value or the wrapped
functions depending on which one you did.
We've gone from four down to three.
We're going to do it again,
where we take that function and
add in another function,
we go from three down to two.
Then we're going to hit this space case
which will simply pass in those functions
and get the value back out.
>> Audience: On 22 [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: The reason we don't want
if you don't want you're going to
be calculating the add to now, so
you could do it that way.
What I'm trying to show is that
creating a function that sort of differ
the calculation until the final end point.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we can also observe,
as I have done here in the comments, that,
and the other way of writing this is
we only need to do the recursive call.
If the array length is
already greater than 2.
Okay?